---
expert_name: Holly Firestone
video_title: Holly Firestone – Swarm 2020 – Community Engagement: From a Small Flame to a Raging Fire
publish_date: 5 months ago
source_channel: Australian Community Managers
appearance: guest appearance
source_url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mXgdhx658HY
transcript_language: en
---

# Holly Firestone – Swarm 2020 – Community Engagement: From a Small Flame to a Raging Fire
Hi everyone. Good morning, good afternoon, good evening depending on where you are. Get this started. Okay. So, um I think for a lot of you out there that are community managers, you've heard from many people before that they say something along the lines to of if they if you build it, they will come. And if you are a community manager that's been doing this for one day or one year or a decade, you know that that's absolutely not true. It makes you cringe a little bit. Um, you can't just build it and expect that people will show up. And even once you do get people to show up, then what? What makes them engage at a much higher level? And so that's what I'm going to talk about today is that next step of engagement. Once you get people in the community and they start engaging, what gets them to be top contributors as well? Okay, so I'll kick it off with a little bit about me. Um, just so you know that I'm not making all of this stuff up, just some of it. Uh, as Vanessa said in the intro, I am Holly Firestone, head of community at Venify. And Venify is a machine identity management company. So thinking about security from machine to machine. Um, you can find me at any of the links below. My LinkedIn, uh, my Twitter, which is, um, to be completely honest, pretty vulgar and [laughter] talks a lot about US politics, but if you're interested in that, sure, go ahead there. Sometimes I talk about community stuff, too. And then, of course, hollyfirestone.com, you can find my blog. I talk a lot about the community professional world and leadership and managing a team, uh, things like that. So, it's a great resource as well. Uh, [clears throat] also as you heard, I am joining from Austin, Texas, a land of tacos and live music capital of the world. So, let's dip into a little bit more about my experience. Uh, Vanessa shared some of this as well, but I'll just kind of dip into it. Um, I have built some of the biggest B2B communities or run some of the biggest B2B communities in the world. Um so Salesforce um as many of you might know and then Atlassian which um if you're in Australia you definitely know and uh built world-class community teams. My team at Salesforce was about it was seven people. Um and I hired and managed most of that team. Um well I managed the whole team but I hired most of that team. Absolute rock stars. They're doing incredible work at Salesforce. Um so I spent five years there a couple years at Atlassian. and I worked at a nonprofit building community as well. And then I guess most important is that I've dazzled at least three people with my karaoke skills. I cannot say no to karaoke. I am a terrible singer. You can already hear my voice is getting raspy and I've barely started talking to you, but I do love to rap. So that's what happens there at karaoke. So um let's just jump into the meat of it, which is incentivization. Incentivization is the practice of building elements into your community strategy that drive different behaviors and levels of engagement in your community. Back when I was at Atlassian, this was 2014, I built 2013, sorry, I built out this community incentivization framework. Uh the way that I came to this was that we had a really thriving user group program and I went to the user group leaders and I asked them, "What makes you contribute? Why do you do this?" Um because it was a lot of work. they're leaving work and instead of going home after that, they're setting up events for people to come and learn about our products. So, I just wanted to know what was driving them. I got a ton of different answers, but I definitely found a common thread across all of them and that's how I came up with Snap. So, we'll dig into that. Starting with status, people want to be recognized for who they are, their expertise, and what they've contributed. And some great examples of that are titles and badges, endorsements, and rankings. Next is networking. So these people that are contributing at very high levels in your community, they're going to be some of your best and your brightest. And you can't ever really go wrong, but by creating an exclusive community just for them to be able to network and connect with each other. They can get really incredible support from each other. There's professional development opportunities there, mentorship, just camaraderie, uh friendship, knowledge sharing, all sorts of things like that, but in a very exclusive group for your top contributors. The next is access. I think access is probably the one that when I talk to people, it's the it's the one I get the most response about. Um that people seem to care about the most as top contributors in your community. And if you think about it, um access is all about giving the people in your community, your top contributors, access to the people at your company that make decisions because the people that are your top contributors in the community, they care a lot about the decisions that are being made for your product, for your company. So giving them access to the decision makers really gives them the opportunity to voice what the rest of the community wants, what they hear from the rest of the community and what they need as well. Because generally, like I said, they're your best and your brightest. They know your product really well and they want to give feedback. If you think about that, that is a dream for any company to have that many people that find this valuable. There's so much mutual benefit in it because they get to give their feedback and see their feedback integrated into the products and then you get that feedback from them. you know what your customers want. And so, um, some examples of this are, um, giving your customers access to see the product roadmap earlier and react to it. Uh, marketing and events. So, if you're going to have an event and different aspects of the event, you can get some feedback from the community on that. Um, or anything really that you're doing policies support customer success, they're generally pretty familiar with all of those things and pretty passionate about them as well. So, great opportunity there to give them access. Another thing is that with access, it's a really great way to have internal teams participate in the community in ways that they wouldn't have before. And then last is perks. So perks are probably the least important in my mind. I mean, they definitely have a very important role in what you're doing because these people that are contributing and engaging at top levels in your community, they deserve a a perk. They deserve appreciation, you know, and this is a great way to say thanks for everything that they're doing. Um, so of course when you think of perks, you think of swag. Swag is great. Um, but there's other really amazing perks that you can give. Like if your company does training and certification and that costs money giving them free training and certification, uh, free or discounted products, professional development opportunities, you don't have to spend a ton of money to make perks really valuable. Even a handwritten card goes a really long way. When I was uh running the user group program at Atlassian, uh when I gave everybody that was a community leader notice and let them know that I was leaving, I got a couple really nice notes um from the user group leaders, you know, wishing me well and saying goodbye. And more than one of them had commented on how much they appreciated just getting handwritten notes from me throughout the years. So, I think that that's worth a mention that it just it doesn't always have to be about the stuff. Okay. So, as a community leader, manager, whatever it is that your role exactly is, uh, you always have to be ready for surprises and to expect the unexpected, like Beyonce pulling a pizza out of her hair. I've had my fair share of gotchas along the way. I'm sure many of you have as well. Um, but here are some tips around SNAP. First is status. When you're thinking about how you want to give status, how you want to give rankings in your community, think about exactly what the name is going to be. Especially if you're doing something like uh like an uh top contributors program, the name matters and it's [clears throat] really it's worth your time and attention. Um because if you think about something like the Microsoft MVP program or the Salesforce MVP program means most valuable professional, you know what that is when you hear it. It's something that, you know, for a professional community, they can put on their resume, they can put on their LinkedIn, they're really, really proud of it. And so, um, you know, you have to be thoughtful about that because it really does make a difference. If you are going to have a community, um, and everybody that was a chop contributor was going to be called Top Pickle. Now, while that is a great name and, you know, fun and pretty hilarious, especially if like this is your mascot and everybody in your community is the top pickles, um, but it doesn't really say what that means to anybody and it doesn't really uplevel it um to be a professional. Like, if you're a top pickle, you might not put that on your LinkedIn, you might not put that on your resume, and you're going to get asked a lot, "What's a top pickle? What's a top pickle? What's a top pickle?" Um, versus it just being really self-explanatory. Although I would love to have some swag that says I'm a really big deal. So moving along um with access. So we talked about access being a lot about influencing decision makers at your company. And um that piece is important, but as you're getting this feedback, you have to use it. You have to take the feedback that the community gives you and actually put it put it into your product or put it into whatever you're planning. you know, they're taking time out of their day to give you this feedback. Like I said, that really is a gift. Um, so you have to use it. And if for some reason you're not able to use that feedback or you're able to use some feedback and not other, you need to take the time to close the loop, whoever it is, you know, your product managers or you can deliver this back to your community, but you have to close the loop and make sure they understand why you didn't use their feedback in one way or the other so that they don't feel like their time was wasted. Um, and then once you roll out whatever it is in the product or announcements or new policies, they will be your fiercest fiercest advocates because they know they played a role in building out what it ended up becoming. Uh, next is perks. So, as you think about perks, think about perks that incentivize the behavior that you want to see in the community, right? So, um, a great example I had mentioned free training and certifications. The thing about your top contributors that's really, really amazing is that they contribute a lot, right? I mean, that's pretty much a no-brainer. So, if you give them something like free training and certifications, they're going to take what they learn and they're going to bring it back into the community. They're going to help people study for their certification test. They're going to teach people what they learned in in training. And so it really is mutually beneficial um because they're going to take what they get, bring it back into the community, but it also helps them elevate their professional status as well. Uh next with perks, uh you can absolutely go overboard with too much swag. Um I know this like hurts everybody's ears. Um if this is deeply offensive to you, cover your ears. But it's true. Actually, uncover your ears. It's [laughter] true. I don't want anyone not to hear this part because if you do go way overboard with swag and let me just step back and say I learned this one the hard way. This is definitely like a Beyonce uh pizza situation. If you do go overboard with swag, you don't have people participating for the right reasons and also you can create a lot of entitlement issues where people are just expecting stuff and that's not really what this is about. Uh, and then the most important thing on this list is that as you're developing this strategy and thinking about what you want to use for the program name or um what you want to call your top influencers or what kind of perks you're going to give out, talk to the people in your community. You have relationships probably the people that are your top contributors already. Pull them aside and get their feedback. um you know we talked about that being an important part of this and so getting their feedback is going to be huge and taking their feedback and using it as I brought up earlier as well because you are building this for them after all and they may change the direction that you're going in and I think that that's a really great thing because you know you can assume you know what everybody in the community wants but really talking to everybody once you have a general idea of what you're trying to do is going to give you the insight you need to build the right kind of incentives for your community, too. All right, so that's it, right? You throw out a couple badges, some t-shirts, and some water bottles, and then you got a perfectly incentivized community, right? No, absolutely not. There's still something very important, which brings us to our next topic, which is ownership and intrinsic motivation. When I talk about distributed ownership specifically, that is building your community programs in a way that not only allows you to invite community members into leadership positions in your community, but that also empowers them to have ownership. This is your key to success. So, I'm going to tell you a little story about a cake. Um, I have shared this story quite a few times before, so if you've heard it, I'm sorry, but I love to talk about cake. Um, so [clears throat] let's say that it's your friend Sophia's birthday and you are so excited to celebrate her birthday. You want to do something special for her. And then your friend Eric gives you a call and says, "Okay, I've got a great idea. You're an amazing baker. So, I'm going to give you some money to buy all the ingredients that you need to bake Sophia an amazing cake for her birthday." You're like, "Great. This is awesome. I love to bake. I can bake an amazing cake. You're going to pay for it." I was kind of low on cash anyway, so this works out great. And then your friend Eric says, "Now I know that chocolate cake with rainbow sprinkles is the best. It is the best kind of cake that you can ever make. So that's what I want you to make for Sophia." You've been friends with Sophia for a very long time, and you know that she hates chocolate cake and she hates rainbow sprinkles. I don't know who hates rainbow sprinkles, but in this case, Sophia does. And so you know that. And you go back to Eric and you say, "Listen, Eric, I I know that this is not what Sophia wants. She doesn't like this." And Eric's like, "Nope, that's the best. I know it's the best. You have to do that." Do you still really want to make Sophia that cake knowing that she's not going to like it? No. Eric's a jerk. You don't want to make that cake. You want to make a cake that you know that she would love. So, you say, "No, thank you." And you walk away. Poor Eric has to go, well, not poor Eric, but Eric has to go to the grocery store and go buy a cake that's not nearly as good. And you go off and do your own thing because that's what ends up being the best thing for you to do for your friend. So, that is the perfect analogy for distributed ownership. And I will tell you why. All right. Give community leaders the support, tools, and resources that they need to build a community, but empower them to build in a way that fits their community's needs. [clears throat] So, there are a lot of benefits to this. I'm going to talk about deeper engagement, authenticity, and scale. [clears throat] Excuse me. Highly engaged and invested leaders are going to give back to you tenfold what anybody else will, of course, because they're highly engaged and they're very invested. And that's what ownership will lead to. Uh they prioritize the community because they have a stake in it. They're personally invested in the success of the community. And then tied to that is that they're your community's fiercest advocates. you know, they they are building with you and they feel ownership over it. So, they're going to advocate for the community and they're going to fight for the community. And there's no better way to be engaged and invested than that authenticity. Uh so when I was running the user group program at Atlassian, we had [clears throat] user groups all over the world and our user group in Kansas City really really liked to meet at lunchtime and um they would do discussion groups around lunchtime and then our group in Frankfurt, Germany really liked to meet after work and they're very presentationheavy group and that worked for them and that was the right way to do it because that's the what sorry that's what their communities wanted. It goes back to the cake example, right? Like if we had said to Kansas and Frankfurt, hey listen, like we want you to do, you know, after work and only discussion groups and this is what you're going to talk about and this is the way you're going to talk about it and your meetings are going to be an hour. It wouldn't have worked. They would have said, "That's not what my community wants. I'm not going to do it." And and walk away because that's that's embarrassing for them. Just like it's embarrassing for you to give your friend a cake you know she's not going to like. So it's exactly like that in the way that you want it to be authentic and they can be the experts of their local community in the way that you really need them to so you can have the authentic reach that you want to. So scale um thinking about how you can grow in an authentic and organic way. Uh distributed ownership plays a huge role in that. So if you look at when I was at Atlassian we had 12,000 members in the community and only two people on the community team. And then you look at Salesforce and same situation, huge community, tiny community team. Um, and the way that we were able to achieve that was by having a reach through all these community leaders that had distributed ownership over all of their groups around the world. Giving the leaders in your community your trust is the most important component of distributed ownership to drive the results of deeper engagement, greater authenticity, and exponential organic growth. All right. So, I said that um [laughter] you always have to be ready for for surprises in the community. Expect the unexpected. Distributed ownership is definitely tricky. And just like you have been wowed today with these crazy surprises. I've been surprised more than once. So, here are some tips. Start off by creating participation or guidelines or code of conduct. Uh that's going to be really important uh because these people that you're giving distributed ownership to, they want to know what the boundaries are. You know, they want to be able to work within those boundaries and understand what they can and can't do. Um you know, I can't I can't recommend this more and it's something that you can always point to and you can always update because crazy things will happen that you'll need to update anyway. Um, but it's a really important piece um, as you're structuring out any kind of program program or engagement or distributed ownership in your community. The next is establishing criteria for the people that you're going to be giving uh, distributed ownership to. So, we'll call them community leaders. And you don't want to be too rigid with this. You don't want to say you have to do these hundred things before you can become, you know, a leader in this community and have that kind of ownership. Uh, because that really will stifle the organic growth. But you don't want someone that just waltes into the community. They've been there one day and you're like, "Oh, here, go take this X, Y, and Z. Go run this, go run this user group or go moderate this." You know, it's just it's not going to work that way either. So, think about what's the most important for criteria and focus on that. Next is being thoughtful about framing and messaging. Um, I'm smiling because I have a lot of experience with this one. Um, definitely um is the surprise taco being thrown out for this one. Um so first example is making sure that um internal and external messaging is really uh thoughtful. So in terms of internal a couple things you want to make sure that internal teams understand that these leaders that have this you know type of ownership do not work for your company. So telling you or telling them that they have to do X, Y, and Z is not going to cut it. They don't have an extra job. They're doing this um because they want to give back. And so piling things on to them is just not the right way to do it. I've definitely had somebody from an internal team that was like that had emailed me something about like leveraging the community leaders to grade exams or something and that's not what they're there for. That doesn't use their expertise in the best ways. So that framing is really important. On the other side of it, making sure that you're framing to the community leaders that they're not employees. So being really thoughtful. What's in their signature line? What's in their business cards? Are they representing themselves fairly as um somebody from the community that's volunteering their time and not a representative of your company? Um that's a very important piece as well. And then kind of across both in terms of messaging and framing, you want to make sure that uh it is very clear that your team, the community team runs the top of the program. So the umbrella that holds everything else. And while they have a slice of the pie, you're looking at everything across the board. So you may get push back from different leaders in the community saying they want X, Y, and Z. Um but making sure that the ownership is balanced is really really important that they know what pieces they have ownership over and then what pieces your team has ownership over um because you're looking at it from a bird's eye view. And then um another one is creating a way for members to bypass these leaders in your community to get feedback to your team. So, if there's ever an issue, I have to say that most [clears throat] of the people that are contributing this way in your community are going to be the most lovely, wonderful people that want to give back in the right ways, that want to play by the rules. Um, but every once in a while, someone will step out of bounds and you need to be able to hear that feedback from the community. Um, and so having some mechanism where they know how to reach your team in any situation like that's going to be really important as well. And then really it's hard to do distributed ownership if you don't have the right tools. Uh so what I mean by that is for code of conduct and guidelines something like a docu sign so that you can easily get them sent out is no barrier for these community leaders to read them and send them back uh you know just really quick. Another one, if you're thinking about something like a user group program, um then something like a tool like Bevby is amazing because there's different levels of access across that tool. It does distributed ownership really beautifully. Um and then of course any kind of tracking that you need to track what everybody's doing in the community. Something like Salesforce, which of course I would say that having been at Salesforce for a while, but tools like these are are really really valuable when you're building something like this. So with everything that I mentioned, I had to update this framework because ownership plays a really important role in incentivization. And so while it's not the exact same as everything else that I talked about in SNAP, it is a part of this. And to have a really fully robust framework for what incentivization looks like, ownership is a big piece of it. So it's now updated to oh snap. And then you'll see at the bottom intrinsic motivation and that is a very important piece of all of this. It is the foundation of all of this. It touches everything. And none of this works without that bottom layer. That piece that absolutely has to exist. Intrinsic motivation is the act of doing something without any obvious external rewards. Your community members are contributing because they genuinely want to. It's enjoyable, interesting, and aligns with their values. So, I'll give you an example. Let's say you have an answers forum and you've got someone that really just cares about the snap piece of this and they just really want some kind of badges and they want the perks, but you know, they don't really care about giving back. Uh, so they're going to go to your answers form. They're going to answer as many questions as possible. Yes, no, whatever they can. That's just as fast as possible to get their numbers up. And that doesn't really give any value to your community. But then you've got someone who's intrinsically motivated to give back to your community and that's where you get the most authentic engagement. So that person is answering questions very thoroughly. They're adding code snippets. They're adding screenshots. They're really taking the time to make sure that they're giving a thoughtful response to the person who asked a question because they really want to help them. And then they're coming back later and making sure that their answer was clear and that the person got what they needed. And so, no, they're not going to be answering hundreds, sorry, hundreds and hundreds of questions, but the questions that they are answering are giving so much more value. And so, that's what you see when somebody's giving back into the community because they simply want to give back and help other people. And that's how you get the most authentic engagement across the board. So, of course, you can't create intrinsic motivation, but you certainly can influence it. And when I say that, I think the most about uh values and culture. So, starting with values, bringing uh your company's [clears throat] values into your community and really weaving them throughout is going to have a really big impact on people feeling connected to your community. What I mean by that is if your company values uh mentorship and education and helping other people, talking about that in the community and bringing it into the community uh will help people connect to the community in a more authentic way and be motivated to contribute and help others because that's what they value too. If your company has values that you don't really like, then maybe your company needs to change their values. if it's not something that the people in your community can connect to, then I think um you're kind of missing you're missing something there in your in your company values. So, bringing those into your community um it really makes uh a massive difference in how people can connect. And then um I think about culture a lot too and that's thinking about building your community to be a place that's really welcoming for everybody. And so thinking about diversity, inclusion, and accessibility. Um who's your community for? You know, and does your community team reflect the people that are in your community as well? You can't um you can't expect people to feel welcome in a community. Um you know, or that you're building a community the right way if you're not being really thoughtful about who's in the community and making sure that um again that your team is really reflecting that. Um what goes with that is thinking about um underrepresented populations in your community as well and making sure that you're clearing the path for them to be able to have ownership and for them to be able to have leadership opportunities in the community as well. So you're really building a community for everybody and everybody sees a leader in themselves in the community too. That's something that I could probably talk about forever, but I will not because um this week I'm also going to be doing a panel with Sophia Rodriguez Mata who I worked with at Salesforce and we're going to be talking a lot about diversity inclusion with Vanessa. So I will leave that there. But all really important parts of making people feel connected to your community in a really authentic way which drives intrinsic motivation. Uh so to run through this really fast um ownership, status, networking, access and perks and then intrinsic motivation which ties everything together. The most important thing that I want to leave with you is that O snap doesn't make authentic engagement appear out of thin air. O Snap grows the initial small flame of engagement into a roaring fire. It expands, enriches what already exists within your most giving and passionate community members.
