---
expert_name: Holly Firestone
video_title: CMX Summit 2025 - Ready, Set, Go: The Winning Balance Between Speed and Precision
publish_date: 1 year ago
source_channel: CMX
appearance: guest appearance
source_url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yy90eUwyYE0
transcript_language: en
---

# CMX Summit 2025 - Ready, Set, Go: The Winning Balance Between Speed and Precision
[Music] We have two community legends coming out right away. First of all, yes, you're excited already. I know it. We've got Erica Cool. She is the new EVP and GM at Gainsite. She also has a podcast you've probably listened to in Before the Lock. There's lots of amazing episodes online. And the second amazing person we have coming to the stage is Holly Firestone. This is an easy one to remember because she's the CEO at Holly Firestone Consulting. Um she also has worked with Atlassian Salesforce and on the executive team at Venify. And these two ladies are going to come to the stage, show you two different ways, two different approaches, but that can really come together and form something amazing. So please welcome Erica and Holly to the stage. Here we go. Hi, everybody. Hi, everyone. All right. So, let's uh let's just jump right into it, okay? Because we're running behind and we got a lecture. So, here we go. All right. Who said this famous quote? If you ain't first, you're last. Does anybody know? You'd think it's Ricky Bobby, but no. It's Erica. Cool. who thinks that the only way to move is fast. Fast fast fast fast. If you go slow, you're dead in the water. Um and uh yeah, that's uh that's our Erica cool right there. Yeah. But if you've ever met Holly, I took a really fabulous picture of her. So just wait. Just wait. Here it is. Oh yeah, there you go. Uh yeah. So Holly as opposed to me who's a lot slower and not literally but like in her work very but like focused and and checks all the boxes and and definitely takes a different approach but and I know this is different but you know yeah this is what we decided to talk about today. Yeah. So Eric and I will talk about ourselves in a minute or a lot I don't know whatever we feel like but we work together for a long time. and we've been friends for a long time and when we got together to do this talk we decided we needed to do something that was very unique to us and one of the things that we realized u where we came together in the best way was that Erica moved things really fast and I was very meticulous and slow and it was getting us together and finding the balance of those things that really led us to success especially when we were thinking about something like a launch right so it wasn't necessarily go as fast as you can or as slow as you can when you're thinking what new program am I going to run or you know something that you're thinking about doing it's the very tail end like it's time to go am I ready and so we came up with a list of questions that uh that we're going to go over today that you can look at and say okay I'm about to launch am I am I ready to rock or do I need to slow down and so that gives you the you know the what's the the comfort to be able to decide if you are if you're ready to go so you can go faster if you answer all these questions the way that we decided help. Okay, but first we wanted to introduce ourselves. Um, so if you those of you that don't know me, I'm Erica and um I have a newly minted title as of yesterday. I don't know if anyone saw some of the news. So yeah, it's pretty cool. Um, so as of uh yesterday, I'm now EVP and GM at Gainsite. And it's pretty cool because I'm gonna get to be a builder that gets to influence a product which is really new for our our crew. Usually that's not the case. So I'm going to be in charge of the um basically the product experience, the community, and the learning. And so we get to have a good voice and a say at what this product does. So that's really fun. But before I did that, as of day before yesterday, I ran a community consultancy for five and a half years. And that was really fun. Um, and then before that I spent many, many moons at Salesforce building community there. Um, and started an education business there. So that's that. And then I am from Boulder, Colorado. Not from I'm from here, but I live in Boulder, Colorado. And I have a hubby and two kids and a dog named Piper. And my kids Yeah. Yeah. You have a Piper. Oh, you're Oh, there's Piper. Yeah, there's Piper. Mine's named after the Orange is the New Black Piper. I don't know. Um, yeah. So that's me over to Holly. All right, a little bit about me. So I am CEO community strategist at Holly Firestone Consulting. Um I have been in the community space for well over 15 years. Uh I worked uh building community at Atlassian at Salesforce which is where we did whatever we did. Um and then I was on the executive team at Venifi. also focused on uh community. Live in Austin, Texas, hence the little cowboy there. Oh, hey. Okay, people. Um I am married to a lovely software developer named Eric. We have two kids, Max and Eve, and two weenie dogs. Where any weenie dog people out here? Because we're crazy people. Hey. Okay, there we go. We are crazy people. Just some fun facts about me. Um a special talent of mine, I was like really digging deep for this, is you know when you can guess like how many candies are in a jar? I've always been like really good at that for some reason. It's very odd. Oh, wait. I also just have to add one thing you're also really good at that's weird like that is the claw machine. Oh yeah, I am really good. Oh god, out here laughing at the claw machine. Yeah, there she is. Um, yeah, I am good at the claw machine. Um, and then love Broadway musicals. Like think they're the greatest thing in the entire world and that's all we've been talking about since we've been together. And then uh the last fact is that I am very freshly recently a cancer survivor, a breast cancer survivor. So I'm here in between surgeries and like very happy to be out and about in the world because that's, you know, a whole other situation. So okay, so on to the content. I know you guys have been sitting here for a long time. Um we're going to get you back on track, but why moving fast is problematic. which is funny you're saying that when we're like I'm trying to move fast trying to move fast but let's talk about what this is terrible that was not supposed to be that way okay so I I tend to move too fast I tend to what happens is a bit of collateral damage around me when I do that um which is why you surround yourself with people that don't to pick up some of those pieces but the idea is that that's not the case that's why these questions are going to be wonderful but I thought I'd give you an example of like what what a moving too fast thing can do and and how if I had these seven questions back then why some of this would not have happened. And so this is a simple example. Um back in the day I was launching the Salesforce MVP program and it was uh pretty bare bones but we were getting everything going and at the last final moment is putting together the swag and the whole point of having one of the points of having the MVP program was to have something uh distinguishable when they came to our big user conference or just when they were out and about in the Salesforce ecosystem. So something that they could that you really could say, "Yep, that's an MVP." And so we looked and tried to figure out what we wanted to do. And what we ended up deciding on were these gorgeous uh Rick Shaw bags. And Rick Shaw is um the guy that started Timbuktu. Does anyone remember Timbuktu bags? The messenger bags. So he went over and did Rick Shaw. So we were like, "Oh, let's start like supporting this cool new brand, Rick Shaw." And started working with him. We made these beautiful bright red bags with a custom insert. Everything was gorgeous. And I was like, "Good. We're ready to go. I have the budget. Let's roll." And so they said, "Well, we were still in the process of this launching this program at the very end." And the logo wasn't quite done. The MVP logo. And I was like, "You know what? We got to get these bags out. Got to get everybody wearing these bags by Dreamforce. We got to get it happen. It's got to happen." And so I made the decision too fast to just put the Salesforce logo on all of these bags. And I had I don't know about any of you, but you don't really have budget when you're building community. It's very difficult. So I was like, maybe this budget's going to go away. I got to get all these bags. So I had tons of these bags with Salesforce logos on them. Well, I bring them to the MVPs. And they're like, yeah, these are cool, but like these just say Salesforce. Like how do I know? How does anyone know I'm an MVP? And so I dealt with this for the longest time because they're the absolute most gorgeous bags. But they MVPs did not love them because Now, they didn't have the MVP logo and I'm stuck now with not literally anymore, but I was in the back of the day stuck with a whole truckload of these these beautiful rickshaw bags with the non-branded um logo on them. So, it's just one example. I know it's a simple one, but there were some really thing important things I probably could have done back then uh to make this a lot better. So, that's just one example of like me moving too fast through something that probably could have been mitigated. All right. Now, I'm going to talk about moving too slow. Um, and it's funny because we both have swag examples, but I was thinking about uh when I was at Atlassian that I wanted Swag came up all of the time. I'm sure everybody here is like, "Oh god, I don't want to talk about swaging my community members. They're nuts about it." And so, uh, we we had a user group program and I wanted to streamline the process of getting the user group leader swag for their meetings. And so I was trying to build out kind of a version of a a swag store and I got them really excited about it, but in the time that we were building it, I couldn't get any swag out to them. And I just kept waiting and waiting, not doing nothing. I was just like, "Oh, this logo needs to be moved over one millimeter." And, you know, not everything's in the store yet. We can't launch it. The process this and this. And I just kept spinning, you know, and just trying to make sure every last thing was perfect. But in that time, again, they weren't getting any of their swag. And they were getting so pissed off that they were waiting and waiting and waiting for this thing that I said was going to be, you know, revolutionary. And I'm sitting there, you know, putts over stuff that's not not important at all. And so by the time I launched it, they didn't give a They were like, just get us our stuff. We're like so over this. I don't think you're allowed to say What? I don't think you're allowed to say You just said it twice and I only said it once. Okay, keep going. You're fired. Okay. So, anyway, they were not even excited because they had been waiting so long and they were so frustrated and there was nothing significant enough to keep me from actually launching that and instead I had, you know, a situation on my hands where I had a lot of angry people that were very very important to us. What's that? Ah, you got a community member. So, you were Hey man, I haven't seen you in 10 years. So we can validate this story. Perfect. Hey, man. You never forget a community member. Am I right? All right. Okay. So, um, these are what Paulie beautifully named the ready, set, go questions. And so, this is definitely something that can apply to a lot of things, but this is a set of questions uh that we talked through that you basically are going to be able to answer yes or no answers to to determine whether you're ready to launch. Now, remember, this is not whether you do a program or not. There's a whole another set of, you know, considerations and things you have to do to even decide what initiatives that you want to do in the community. But this is when you're about ready to launch, are you ready to go? Do you answer yes or no to these questions? And we're going to introduce scoring and things. So, this is something again like yes or no quick. You should be able to answer these questions quickly. And if you are one direction, you probably should not go. And if you are all one direction, you probably should go. So, these are things that we wish that we would have known. And so, um, what I want you to do is, this is kind of a workshopy thing. We've, you know, as we've evolved this, uh, session, but I want you to right now just take a moment because I know that you've been doing a lot of listening to people talk, but right now you're, it's your time to think. So, we're going to go through these questions, but I want you to come up with a scenario of something you're either about to launch or you did already launch and maybe didn't go perfect and that maybe this would have been better. So, so think for a second. Take a moment. I can't see you. Are you thinking? I think you're thinking. Yes, we're thinking. Think, please. Okay. Yeah, it is. It is. I feel the wheels turning. There's like little light bulbs. Do you have something? Raise your hand if you have something in your mind. I'm not going to ask you what it is. Just do you. How are you thinking of something? Okay, good. So, you a few of you are thinking. All right. So, when you're when you're going through this, what I want you to do is we're going to read these questions out and we're going to talk a little bit about them and then you in your mind say yes or no. That's all you need to do. in your mind say yes or no. So um first question. All right. Will this erode our community's trust in its current form? So if you launch right now exactly the way it is, is it going to piss off your community? Is it going to erase their trust? Did they put a lot of time and energy into helping you put something together that's going to disappear, you know, or um may not go well and then it it's just gone forever or you didn't get the appro. I mean, we'll go through all these questions, but will it upset your community? Will it keep have them recoil and not want to be involved anymore? I think this is a really really important one. These aren't in priority order, but this one I would say is probably the the I mean, they're all very important, but it's very, very important because the thing is it's not necessarily like a marketing campaign that you launch and if it doesn't work, you don't get the numbers you want and you iterate. You're dealing with people. you're dealing with people that are very emotionally attached to your community and each other. And so it's very important to make sure that you think through this question. And wait, before you move on, wouldn't you say, and I'm sure you'd all agree that it is so so so so hard to gain your community's trust, but is like eroded in a second. So, and then gaining it back, it's so hard. So, this is a really really important one. Okay. Did you answer in your mind or on a piece of paper? Okay. You look satisfied. Moving on. Okay, second question. If we don't move forward with this now, will waiting negatively impact our community, our team, and our budget. Okay, this is pretty self-explanatory, but think through this because I think this is something that you jump right through. I think we, you know, we think we know best, but answer this question. If we move forward, will this will this impact negatively our team? Because you might, for instance, lose your budget. Is this something that this is happens to us? Do you get end of the year money and you have to spend it within a certain amount of time? Do you have to do it that because of that? Is that how you answer? Is it going to impact your team? Is your team burnt out? Are they just like, I can't do a single more thing or this is going to lose their mind? There's a million things you can think about, but you have to answer this question. Yes or no? Will it impact your community, themselves, your team, or your budget? Because these are all important considerations to it. They've all lost budget. And it's also very hard, just as hard as it is to get your community's trust as it is to get budget because especially us, we don't get a lot of budget. So, yes or no? I'm not sure. Did we mention at the beginning there's a point system on here? So, at the end, we'll tell you what that all means. So, kind of add those up as you're going along as well. Maybe we said that. I don't know. I don't think we did say that. I blacked out. I don't know. We're doing a great job up here. It's definitely, you know, between the both of us, we have probably like, if we stack us up on top of each other, we have one real whole human person height. Yeah. So, yeah, we're just doing our stick up here. All right. After after launch, is this something we can easily keep refining and building? So, you are ready to launch, you put it out there, and you realize there's a mistake. What does that look like? Are you going to be able to change it? Is it something that is going to be able to evolve as time goes on? Or is this very much set in stone? It's going to be very difficult to walk it back. You think about something like a migration and migrating data and login and all that kind of things. Those are things that are very, very hard to walk back on. So thinking about what happens if I launch this and can I fix the problems that might come up or not even problems but changes that we might need to make. I I have to jump in because this is a perfect one for the example that I talked about. I quite literally was thinking about getting one of those little stitching needle tools and picking off the logo of all of those bags. No joke. Like I thought, what can I possibly do? But this if I had these questions, I wouldn't I wouldn't have gone forward because you cannot undo. You cannot. That is a a perfect one. You didn't want to do like branded seam ripper. I swag. I thought about it. You know what I ended up? Can I tell you? Of course. We have dawning on some of these memories are so old um because this is an old memory but what I ended up doing I thought this was kind of brilliant. It didn't go over very well but um was there you know they're cross bodies and you remember you used to be able to put the phone holders on the outside of of the cross bodies and that I thought was like oh this is brilliant because that had then I was ready for the MVP logo but there's so many differentiz phones like what an idiot so it kind of was a waste but can't undo. couldn't undo it and they were probably annoyed. They were so annoyed because then they were annoyed again because then they couldn't use that weird little attachment, right? And then you were annoyed because they're like, "This is the size of my phone." And they were like, and then Yeah. Yeah. That's how it goes. This sounds This tracks this very much tracks. So much drama in my life. Okay, here we go. Next question is, this is tactical and this is great. Do we have all the right internal approvals? Uh, yes or no. Think in your mind. Don't forget you have you have a job out there to do because we're going to meet in a second. This is more tactical like did you literally check all the boxes? Did you cross all the te's dot all the eyes? Make sure you have the approvals because the last thing you need is to get all the way to the finish line and forget that you talked to forgot to talk to finance or legal or one little thing that you didn't and that's going to restrict you from going forward. Um, did you get all them? Now, this doesn't have to be all all. It has to be the most important ones because we're we're not trying to I'm not trying to turn you into me or Holly. This is a good combination of both of us together where you both are agile and you also go slow enough. So, do you have all the right internal approvals? Anything to add there? No. Okay, great. If this doesn't work as is, will the cost to fix it be a major hit to our budget? So, we've keep bringing up like a lot of community teams don't have a lot of budget and so if you put all of your eggs in one basket and it doesn't work, what happens? or if it doesn't work and you need to pay to fix it somehow like do you have the cushion to do that? So before you launch thinking through are we ready if we're if if something happens we are not ready do we have a giant is it going to be just a giant mess to try to fix it at least on our budget side and if it is then maybe you're going to need to take a little step back and think through a few more things. So, uh, budgets definitely something that we we think about a lot and talk about a lot. Okay, next question. Have we set clear expectations with our leadership about what this will look like at launch? Uh, this is something that I I fall victim to, and I'm sure a lot of you too, you know, we we think we know what we're talking about. We do know what we're talking about, but often other people don't. Um, and we make a lot of assumptions that people do understand what we're talking about. So, have you done that? Have you taked out all the taken out all the assumptions and clearly identified what it's going to look like? Because we've all been there where we get something out into the wild and it looks totally different than what they expected and then we have to walk it back and what is what is going to that, you know, what's that going to look like? How's that going to impact? Then the rest of the questions start coming back again. But, um, have you done that? Have you taken out all of that assumptions and put that out? And I would just add that this isn't necessarily just about the program itself, right? Like if you are launching in a state and they think it's like a perfectly wrapped up in a bow finalized state and it's not like you need to express that to them because maybe they will want you to stop and have take some more time to do X Y and Z because that's something that's really important to them and that's something they value you know in their in their role as a leader something that you don't know about. So, I think, you know, being um being really thoughtful about that conversation and honest with that conversation so they know what it looks like and especially if they're pushing you to move too fast. Here I go again. Like, oh, too fast. But if they I don't know anyone who's done that to me. But especially if they are pushing you to move too fast, say, "Okay, we're going to go, but I want you to know this is what it's going to look like and these are these are the outcomes that might happen because of it." Do you think does that outweigh, you know, us and the the timeline that we're trying to meet? A lot of times an executive will be like go go go. Um and and you kind of just prepare yourself for that, but you have to set the right expectations so nobody's surprised. And that also means impact too. I think the impact of what you know, you can say, "Okay, this is what it's going to look like. Does this look like what you think?" And they say, "Go, go, go." And you're like, "Okay, we're going to get this augmented reality of what this program is going to do. And if we wait, this is what it's going to look like. So, it's it's good to kind of map out all the different options for sure. Because getting fired, not fun. Not cool. You don't want to get fired. No, you don't want to get fired. I mean, you used to fire me. I fired you daily, though. Daily. She like, you are fired. I It didn't matter what I said. We got in a fight over a loaf of bread and she was like, "You are fired." Like every day. Yeah. But it's true. It was really a mentally healthy place for me to be. All right. And the last Oh, this is you. Sorry, I think I talked so much in the last one that I thought it was mine. You okay? Have we done our due diligence? So, all of these things of course are part of your due diligence. Um, and obviously as you are building a program, you have a million things to do that would qualify as due diligence. But at the very end, you're thinking, have we talked to the people internally that this is going to impact right off the bat at launch? Are they going to be surprised at the launch date? you know, make sure there's no surprises for the people that you especially that you're working with. You've already talked to them at this point. They know this program is happening. They know it's going to roll out. You know, you're not just surprising us them with this and saying we're launching tomorrow, but that at least they know and they know what the launch kind of timeline looks like too. So, what does that mean the days after as well? So, that's a piece of due diligence, but also you need to talk to the members of your community before you launch anything. Now, that should be part of this whole lead up as you're going obviously, but before you launch, just that last check with some trusted community members to get their feedback because you are building this community for them. So, they are the people that will give you the best feedback and then give yourself a cushion of time if you need it to fix those things, which we're going to kind of go into. Yeah. Not to bring it back to the MVP logo thing again, but this is probably a perfect example of I could have just gone to a little cohort of them and said, "Hey, Dreamforce, you're not going to have these bags, but if you wait, you'll get this bag with this branded logo." And they probably would have been like, "Cool. Just like put a sticker on our badge or something." And they they did say that. So, it's like if I just would have brought them into the fold and asked that question to myself and asked it of them, then they would have told me. Let's pause. We'd rather have an amazing piece of swag with a with a very elite logo than a generic one. That actually reminds me when I when I first started at Salesforce, my first Dream Force with the MVPs, I created these shirts that said Salesforce MVP. And on the back it said, "Ask me anything." Remember that? And I didn't ask them about it first. And they're like, "We're not your just your little information people running around." And I hope none of y'all are in the but but they were really really upset about it. All I had to do was just ask them first, you know, what do y'all think of this design? And give them ex I could have given them exactly what they wanted and I did it because that time I moved too fast for once in my life. Oh, I was my fault. Guaranteed. I think I told you to do that. But anyway, I mean, yeah, actually, I'll give you that. Yeah, it was totally your fault. Well, you probably started like 36 seconds before that dream force anyway. Um, but yeah, that was actually was a that and then you think about these other things because it starts well now that I'm thinking about it starts cascading to these other questions and it starts eroding trust and it like it un it undoes all you don't know us, you don't care about us. I think that's why we're going to get to the scoring guide in a second. But that's why every one of these needs to be answered properly. That's why it's a yes or no is that it can't just be some of them. It has to be all of them and and otherwise you don't you either go slower or go faster. Um, all right. So should we move on to Okay. Did you do it? Did you keep track of your initiative? Okay. Okay. We got one. We got one. That's all we need. All right. Yeah. Thank you for playing along here. Okay. Awesome. So, moving on to the scoring. So, like Erica said, you've got to make sure that all the questions are answered correctly. It's not yes or no across the board for all of them. Some are yes, some are no. Um, but if you scored seven points exactly, go. Okay. You can you can feel comfortable. Now, I will add this caveat that every organization is different and some things matter to some organizations more than others or there's always some kind of weird piece of this. So, you can definitely customize this to fit your needs. But generally, if you're like, "Okay, ready to launch. Let me just go through these questions." All of them should get you seven points. They should always yield seven points. If it's eight to 10 points, it means you are close or maybe you're not sure on something and you need to dig a little deeper on that. So, slow down. Just think through a couple more things. It doesn't mean your timeline has to be completely destroyed, but you know, take take a moment and think through how you can fix some of the things on the list that maybe you're unsure about. And then the last one is stop. Especially if you're at 14 points, you are not ready to launch. like your launch date. I don't know when it is, but if it's like, you know, really really soon in the next week, two weeks, whatever, you are not ready. You need to go back and really think through all of these different pieces and maybe even some of the steps before that because this is supposed to be like a quick like yes, no, ready to go. And um that's why it's I think that's why it's so good. It's a good methodology is it's it's a yes or no. So, as you were going through, you probably wanted to say, "But maybe, but but what if?" And if if really truly you're doing this right, and you're just making these last final steps to go slow or go fast, it should just it should just tally up and it should be easy because already I'm thinking in my mind as I was going through this, I was like, "But but nope." If you have to answer yes or no, then it comes down to points. It comes down to points. Yeah. I think when we were coming up with with this methodology and this exercise, it's so funny because we did go back and forth and and hem and haw over the the details within each of these questions. But the whole point of this is to go fast but precise. And so um that's kind of yeah what what led us to the point. But we did hem and haw as we do. We always hem and haw. Um we're doing it right now. Um so everybody's here to witness this ridiculousness. Sorry for you. All right. So, we're now this is you some of you are in group format. I know some of you are in the back are not in group format, but I do want you to uh take a moment and we're going to just um let you talk to each other. So, I know that there's some of you that were thinking through this, some of you that weren't, but maybe what you could do is now just like turn to your people that are either in the back or together. And we're going to give you a couple minutes and we're going to put back up the questions and we're going to let you talk through it a little bit about it. And if you um if you did do it, you want to share or someone else has something else they want to talk through and then give you a couple of minutes to talk through that. And so we'll put back up the questions. Is that all right? So here they all are in one long laundry list. And remember, yes, no, and then we will score it later if you didn't do it. But um try to be very precise and try to have something in your mind that you're about ready to do or that you've already done and you wish you would have had this. Okay, everybody wind down your thoughts. We'll give you 30 seconds to kind of and then when you wind down, we will review. Since I uh went too fast with the slides, we uh we will review the It was me this time. You You've had a really negative impact on my life apparently because I'm going too fast. A I'm just kidding. Um okay, we're going to review the scoring and then you have to rescore if unless you already caught your mistakes. But um so Holly, we recap the scoring. Do you want to recap? You want me to do it? I've already proved myself here. Okay. You go ahead. You got this. Thank you. Are you doing it? You're doing it. Okay. Uh will this erode our community's trust in its current form? If the answer is yes, that's a problem. So you will have the two instead of the one. If it's a no, you can score one. If we don't move forward with this now, will waiting negatively impact our community, our team, and our budget? If the answer is yes, negative impact probably not a good thing. So, you're going to score that two, you're going to score no one. Do you Are you doing any of these? Just keep going. I like just standing here supporting you here. Keep going. I don't know what you're about to do to me. It's very uncomfortable. I was gonna put my arm around you. Okay. which was okay. After launch, is this something that we can easily keep refining and building? Yes, you want to keep refining and building it. So, that is a one. No is a two. Do we have all the right internal approvals? Anyone want to guess which one you want to be? A yes or a no? Yes. There you go. So, that one's a one. No is a two. If this doesn't work as is, will the cost to fix it be a major hit to our budget? Yes. No is a one. Have we done our due diligence? No is a two. Yes is a one. I'm just going all over the place here now. Have we set clear expectations with our leadership about what this will look like at launch? Anyone? What's What's the answer here that you want to have? Yes. Clear expectations obviously a lovely thing. So, yes. All right. Okay. Now that you've done that, who got a big huge high score? Anybody get a big huge high score? Oh, nobody wants to admit. Oh, hey Pasani. Maybe. I like it. Okay. I think they got a high score on here, too. Anyone else get a pretty high score? Okay. Couple people. Couple people. Anyone get like a middle tier score? Like a yellow yellow light. All right, that sounds about right. And anyone get like a a go? Okay. Couple. All right. Well, yeah, that's Yeah, that is kind of This is just really like something. Originally, we wanted to try something different. It's very community related, but I feel like this is something you can run through in your own mind in many, many different other scenarios, but I think that this is something that I really, really wish I would have had in my back pocket, in my life, and definitely in my community launches for sure. Right. And I think that that is um it's a really good learning too because when we came together there was a lot of um almost friction because you know I wanted everything to be perfect like I said and Eric was Erica was wanting to move very very quickly because she had a lot of pressure coming down on her from the leadership team but really ultimately what we we understood was the mix of both is what got us to be the most successful and I remove the stick But anyway, I uh I calmed down and Erica was a little bit more methodical about our choices and we still definitely skew one way or the other in in every situation, but you know, we check each other a lot. Um, which I think is important. So, I think another lesson learned there and why it's so great that we're speaking together because we are buddies and we became buddies because we work together so so well. Um, and that's listening to each other and finding your strengths and your um, areas to improve and then feeding off of each other. So, if you are leading a team, this is a really important exercise, too, because you're thinking about the way you balance each other out as well. You could, if you don't have a team, which I'm sure many of you don't, you can also do this with someone else that is your yin to your yang. So, if you're the one that's the go- go, find someone else that's a bit more methodical, run these questions by them, work with them. Yeah. And customize them for your use cases, too. Yeah. Um, okay. We We're getting you back on track. That is a wrap. You My name is Erica with a C, last name with a K. People get this wrong all the time. That's how you You can find me everywhere. Um, and yeah, I'm I'm easy to find. And I'm going to be here. You are not easy to find. Yeah, I'm a little person, but I I move very fast, but you will find me. I'm also hanging out, so she's just buzzing around all the time. And Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. She'll be like a shadow. Um, yeah. And I'm Holly Firestone. That is Holly with an H and Firestone with a fire and a stone like the tire. All right. Yeah, you've seen our now you've seen our variety show. Thank you. And come come find us. Ask questions. Anything that you need, we're here. And then we'll be heading back to Erica's parents house after this. So, please ask any questions. Thank you. [Music]
