---
expert_name: Marius Ciortea
video_title: CMX Summit Interview Series
publish_date: 3 weeks ago
source_channel: The Community Collective
appearance: guest appearance
source_url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZIuWtrN6G0s
transcript_language: en
---

# CMX Summit Interview Series
Hey, we're here in San Francisco, my friend. My friend >> Silicon Valley. >> Yeah, Silicon Valley, right? >> This is This is where things happen. >> This is We are in the place. I'm excited. >> I'm excited. Dave, tell me about your role at Bevy. >> Yeah. So, I am a senior product manager and I'm working mainly on our AI initiatives. Uh, so from like moderation to helping people create posts to analytics and tying all that all back to to like ROI. >> What kind of in my domain? Yeah. Yeah. And Intros AI, your previous company was acquired by Bevy. It was recently. >> We worked together on that. I think you were the you were like the both like best product feedback giver and champion at the same time. Usually usually it's like if someone's giving really good product feedback, usually they are not a champion, but you were both of those things. >> Oh wow. I love that. I love that. >> Thank you. Yeah. >> Oh well. Now here we are Summit. What do you think is the future of community? I think the future of community is >> there's a few things here are happening. >> So tell us. >> All right. So >> well one I think you know with the community I think community collective like that type of initiative is going to be really much more important as companies look to like adopt community strategies. Another trend that's happening that's related to that is like existing channels are breaking down. >> Yes. >> Right. So outbound messaging isn't working because people won't respond to emails and um so discovery is difficult. So companies are wanting to invest in these more creative ways to to one find and connect people. So on the lead side and then two to make sure that people who are engaged stay with your company because you need you need deeper connections between people and if you leave a as a customer it's easier to switch products but you want there to be uh an emotional opportunity cost too. >> Yes. >> Which you know. So yeah. you know in a very businessy sense it's like you know you want to make sure that people who uh who are your customers like have friends who are also customers and and are learning from others >> and uh >> that's the key >> and feel like they are being listened to. >> Yes. >> So it's it's becoming more of an identity you know the identity around the company is is more important and the only thing that really leads that identity is this affiliation that comes from community. >> Well the game is changing right the landscape is changing so I love that. David give me a high five now. Two.
