---
expert_name: "Marius Ciortea"
video_title: "Trends in Tech: CCO of IBM"
publish_date: "Streamed 1 year ago"
source_channel: "Clocktower Advisors"
appearance: "guest appearance"
source_url: "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EFNLqA4Pxy0"
transcript_language: "en"
---

# Trends in Tech: CCO of IBM
Today on Talk About Your Community, communities aren't what they used to be, and that's a good thing. I'm joined by Marius Chorti, uh, chief community officer at IBM to explore how the entire idea of community is shifting as new technologies from platforms to AI redefine what participation, connection, and leadership look like. What happens when the tools we build with change? when the tools we build will change faster than the people we build for. That's the question we'll be digging into today. Khalisa, let's roll the opening. [Music] Good morning, good afternoon, good evening, wherever in the world you may happen to be, you've tuned into talk about your community. I'm Todd Nilson, your host with Clock Tower Advisors. And on this show, if you're here for the first time, uh we talk to a variety of experts from the field of community and outside and adjacent to it to get their perspectives on how technology and community are growing together. And uh today is no exception um to that topic. I'm really excited to have on the show with me today, uh, Marius Cha. I think I maybe mispronounced his name in the opening even though he gave it to me. Um, Mor Marius uh is uh the chief community officer from IBM and has graciously uh made it onto the show today uh despite some some uh travel uh snafuss. Uh but uh we're really glad he's here and we're glad you're here as well. if you've tuned into the live stream would love to hear from you in the course of the show and uh we we always take questions and sometimes promote those questions onto the screen um in the midst of the event as well. So um it is an interactive uh live stream and of course if you uh tune into this afterwards in the replay um I do check out all the comments and try to respond to everybody. Uh so uh always value uh subscribers uh as we cross stream over to YouTube and to some of the other channels which I consider my social media exhaust port. Um in the meantime um I do want to uh mention to everyone to mark your calendars for the next live stream event that we have which is uh with uh Nasia Comrad. Now Nasia has been uh an interview guest on the show before but not on the live stream and she's going to be joining us to talk about designing for belonging. uh rebuilding community in a technology heavy world uh which will be a nice companion u to the conversation with Marius today. But now without further ado I want to welcome onto the screen uh Marius. Marius welcome to the show. Thank you for having me. Good to see you Todd. Good to see you as well. Uh thanks again for for coming on the show. Um I always like to ask a few questions about uh origin stories or how you got into community to begin with. Um what what drew you into the world of community building at the outset? So well um I kind of like fell into it I would say um after running a startup um and that not going all that well. I I found myself uh needing to find a job and I was my early 20s and the only thing I really knew how to do was code. So, um, there was a job opening at Oracle that my wife signed me up for and I interviewed and happened to be a web developer for the Oracle Technology Network which was supporting um, basically their their community and um, so I became a web developer in a community team and then I became a project manager in that team implemented uh, Jive for the folks that are old enough to remember. I remember in a time where we were the second customer. Um, Jive was uh literally like three people and they hired a contractor to help uh drive uh develop the um OBBC drivers for Oracle. So I uh launched Jive from a technical perspective. So project management perspective and then slowly slowly from there you know became more involved with their community and then at some point led that community um and yeah well the rest is history after jumping from Oracle to startups to VMware and now IBM. Wonderful. Yeah. And uh and you've worked with some some very large enterprises. I'm very interested to dig into uh into your role um in particular your current role right now uh which is the the chief community officer uh of IBM and uh for those of you uh who are interested we're going to probably put a a link up in the uh in the top here in in post-prouction um that's going to point to the series that we've done on the the role of the chief community officer which is an emergent role uh in in more recent years and uh I I'm for for those uh who are tuning in and may be familiar with a community manager or community professional um what what exactly is a chief community officer supposed to do? What is that role about? So um I have to fully admit so a self-appointed chief community officer at IBM and that came for a reason, right? So I was hired into IBM to namely sorry. So IBM is really really big, right? So IBM is like 27,000 employees. Um and when I joined IBM, it was divided into multiple business units. Each of the business units with billions of dollars in revenue. Um but they didn't have really a global community strategy when I when I was hired in and I was not actually hired to create a global community strategy. I was hired something that I was in the data and AI business unit or I think at that time we called analytics business unit and they wanted to have a community just for their business unit right and that was what initially I started but very quickly I I went like well it doesn't make any sense to see customers as just like data and AI IBM customers in in my mind they were IBM customers right it doesn't matter what products they were using they were customers of IBM And I started to see an opportunity to to tell that story right to every GM that I would meet and saying like this is great that I'm doing this over here but you don't have that and customers are confused as you know this product has a community and this product does not have a community or has a different community that looks very different than this community and they have to log in in various places and each one has gamification because we love that. So you have points and badges and whatever you want to have in different ways and they all look different. They all have different names. Customers are confused, right? Mhm. So in order for me to kind of uh go up the chain and say, "Hey, we need to bring this all together." um I um asked to have this chief community officer role to be taken seriously within IBM and have the authority of saying no, you cannot have your own community and your own little silo and your own way of uh creating the experience that you think is fit. We are one company under one brand and we need to build this together. So really the first four years or so that I was at IBM was really spent of like consolidating those probably hundreds of communities um and hundreds of user groups um into one strategy and and that is really what at IBM the chief community officer role entails was really much creating this this one strategy across IBM and consolidating all the communities into one community and also then creating best practices on how to engage with it. Um and that that I think is probably still my my biggest achievement at IBM is from going to many many many different communities to one a huge effort. I cannot imagine that uh you know any large organization that has had sort of a uh organically grown series of fragmented communities and bringing that together into one consolidated vision and maybe eliminating extraneous platforms to the extent possible. that migrations all those kind of things come uh uh come apart but but you know uh and in uh before we got here we talked about a little bit the ROI story right on how do you sell this to u your executives and this doesn't work because not all companies are the size of IBM but particularly at IBM it's pretty simple to show like hey you have 10 platforms look at what you're paying um if we go to one here's what we're paying um you have 10 communities look at the employees that that map against it right um if we go to one here's what actually the orc chart would look like for one community so there's tremendous savings uh in having a unified strategy and that was initially uh one of my main um ROIs um within the company is showing the the savings uh the company has um by doing this in addition of course of the other stuff right of course better voice and better brand and unified brand and all other things are beneficial as well but you know, executives um eyes light up when you tell them what they can save by doing this. Yeah. Yeah. But then then of course, like when when you've gotten past that savings question, we've we've peeled off these extra platforms, we've consolidated the effort, like then ROI becomes something different. It evolves again, right? Yes. Then it evolves again. So, so, so what does leadership care about today as as you're kind of uh you know sharing success stories from the community? So again evolutionary everything is evolutionary and and there's an iteration every a couple of years. Um after the ROI sort of of of um getting everything into into one um the next thing that I focused on was driving actual um revenue impact for IBM that they can actually look at and I always believe that community is a unique database that's I mean sounds kind of very harsh to to look at that but it's a database of customer information. Um, and how do you monetize that, right? How do you take advantage um, in the right way without hurting the community community members, but how do you monetize it to show ROI? And uh, what I did uh, or for me that strategy was events. and I build up a robust uh webinar and event um virtual event platform so to speak um where uh we currently run roughly 400 webinars uh a year uh partnering tightly with the product management and product marketing teams and then we do um quarterly what I used to be the community day virtual days now they are like the dev days closely related um which are virtual large events and both of these were anchored in community, right? So they are not marketing driven but they are they are anchored in what the customers actually our user base wants to hear about the topics they want to hear about more technical more downto-earth um less like forward selling more about like how do they use the products today which still has a lot of value um but we are now tracking against it right and through that I am able to show you know almost like I think it's like billion or something in demand genen or something by now and hundreds of million in win revenue. Um so that is it's a clear um revenue um or tie into business outcomes. So that was my initial thing and now the last thing where I'm currently at is the last iteration um I'm actually now part of a sales organization which is kind of new uh for a community team to be in a sales team but it is a unique again position for IBM. um my GM actually his organization is called the technical community IBM's technical community. So he has created a strategy where um the text sellers and um um customer um sales folks that the people that actually build stuff are connected through communities and drive value, right? So for him he's built sort of a flywheel as as like somebody buys the product they're now joining a community they're active in the community they stay they stay active in the community and then that that turns into conversations with uh technical experts within IBM which then drives to new projects and new community members and it's sort of like a whole flywheel that that we now have going. So it kind of makes sense where where I'm fitting in and the vision that this the GM our GM is Steyberg if you guys want to look him up on link on LinkedIn he's great newsletters you should follow um we fit right in. So it's it's uh it's unique in the industry I would say but it's pretty cool. That's an endlessly fascinating question to me just how how ROI evolves for organizations and how how they they think about defining it and and the creative ways that I hear about many uh community leaders um you know finding to engage with the various stakeholders you know in in the organization. Yeah. And you have to adapt of course right um but it's really exciting to be in an organization where um from the very top community plays a critical role in the flywheel that he is building out. And it's not just his community, it's user groups, right? He fully understands the value of a user group which are part of the communities. And then of course advocacy which are the IBM champions on our end um and how they fit in that um ecosystem and um it's pretty cool to have that vision. So that that's unique point of view and and I'm super excited I'm part of that point of view and and allowing me to continue building out the community at IBM. Really wonderful. when I I I'll just observe that, you know, from the other interviews I've had with um head of community roles or director of community or chief community officer, you know, kinds of roles, um it always seems to be an evolutionary step in a career like it's something that grows up within a company. It's almost an entrepreneurial um effort. Um it's not that organizations say at the outset. I I may be seeing that more on the startup side, but like on established enterprises, they don't generally say we're hiring a new chief community officer uh at this point like like it's a role that develops because of the unique talents and capabilities of the person in the organization and and the things that they're doing and ability to like for the person then to to kind of move the the the needle in whatever the IBM strat sorry whatever the company's strategy may be. I think that um what I find like successful uh community leaders have versus just community managers is truly understanding the the company's objectives and understanding how to tie the the community into those objectives. The ones I see failing the most often is the one that stick to a um um a belief of what community should be and trying to force the community point of view into that into that strategy. I think it creates a lot of friction and I see those people usually leave those jobs. Um that's and not nothing against those folks because I I love the the the true community believers. Um but but it it creates a lot of friction if you sticking to your guns only and and do not see what actually what you need to do for business outcomes. It's almost a sort of unrealistic idealism. Uh which I I I love that. Uh but me too, right? because that's where I'm from. But I leave that to the community managers. That's how I got I want them to be the idealist and fight for the users all day long and and uh do this great engagement and community. The community leaders I think need to uh understand what the company's uh really is trying to achieve and how does community fit into that plan. that such a core skill that unrelenting need to connect the community to value um for for your organization. I really really love that. That's a great that's a great note. Um just out of curiosity, what uh what do you have like a team of direct reports? Like what does that look like for you um as as a leader? Yes. So um and my leader uh role also has evolved I have to say I now uh run um all the digital engagement for uh tech exchange which uh there's also a tech exchange uh event that you guys can check out then the link will be provided later. Uh so so my team yeah it's roughly like 30ish people uh of which about um a little bit over a third are dedicated to community and the community platform. So it it's a you know I have like developers that kind of go across both both things but I have a six dedicated community um I have a community leader actually as well sorry a head of community um that helps me kind of run the six community managers that are focused across IBM but there's more than goes into this it sounds like always like when it's like you have to build like a larger team here um it's not just the the six each or each of the different units and products have champions right that are looking after the community and that group is like around 40 or 50 within IBM that those six basically have relationships with um and that is really the where the credit goes in in in connecting with the end customers so there are um technical sellers there's product marketeers um product management is involved they all sort of played a role and the community manager's role is to be a facilitator between those two camps so one is like yes being in a community and and help the community members solve whatever issues may have and make them successful. But the other side is really more like how do you get uh internal advocates for the community and have them engage because that's where a lot of the content comes the bloggingmemes coming into the community and answering um things um ideas that of like how can you engage the community like webinars or uh custom events and going to them and and selling that value to those individual product groups is really what sustains the engagement in the community. So I I I called my team the um connectors. That is my uh internal name for them because their job really is to connect uh people. That's wonderful. That's wonderful. Uh if you're just tuning in, we are talking to Marius uh Shorta uh the chief community officer from IBM talking about the evolution of technology and the the role of the chief community officer um in the enterprise. And uh we you know love to have questions and uh comments in the uh the chat if you have any uh you know for for Mars please do not be shy. Uh quick shout out to Donnie and Constantine who are who are have already said hello on the chat. Great to see you both. Thank you for joining uh the stream. Um just to maybe switch gears a little bit. Uh I think we said in the teaser for for the event here we wanted to talk a little bit about communities in a time of tech disruption. uh it seems to be a perpetual state we live in these days. Um you you mentioned wanting to explore how uh disruptive technologies are changing communities. Um would you care to maybe unpack that a little bit and uh talk about the evolution of communities from your vantage point? Sure. U first just want to say hi to Constantine because he's my kid. Um so that's why I'm in Philadelphia today hearing his name. So hi Constantine. I don't know what you're doing here but hopefully you old man entertains. Yeah. Um okay so uh around technology so yeah so technology is um ever evolving. Uh the AI space I think will change everything and a community is going to be just one of the many many many many places um AI u significantly will change how we engage uh with programs like community programs. Um at the core I always looked at community to be two things. um and it's around knowledge right so there's one side is knowledge contribution and the other one is knowledge extraction right and in very traditional community management both of them are the hum humans right um humans come in and they contribute content and they themselves are the knowledge or the content that contributed the knowledge and on the other end uh people are wanting to extract the knowledge and you usually do it by asking asking another human or asking a question in the community and then the right person will give you the right answer. So now you actually have this exchange of of knowledge and with every answer the knowledge grows again and and it it's um it's it's it's how I think communities work. Um technology always played a role and the first thing when technology came in was just basic search right? So one way of of extracting knowledge was you go in a community you search on a topics and you get like search results and there you go you you now have extracted a little bit of the knowledge and the value of the community. Um the most logical phase when AI came around is to really focus on the extraction part of knowledge. How can AI help us give uh a better search results that take advantage of the you know some communities have millions of threads in there uh look through it and really give good answers not just search result answers right and that's generative AI and we built that in our community already we have we're using Watson X and uh IBM granite which I'm lucky to have IBM which is heavy in the community space so you guys can can log in the community and check it out today. So I thought that that is the first thing where we're going to see agents pop up everywhere and it's a little scary for community managers because if you are just asking an AI to give you an answer then you certainly are breaking up the relationship that between humans right and what makes community so great because it's a human answering things like why do you need a community when AI answers your stuff? Do we need community at all? And um my answer to that is is that yes you still do need humans but it we the interactions will starting will evolve right and it's going to be different type of agents that are specialized in different things. So while the first agents will be all about extracting knowledge and the next gen of agents will be how does how do the agents actually help connecting people back to this connector um idea right so they will be able to sort of like identify and this by the way this is not just me talking this is stuff that we're actively working on trying to to figure out how this actually works um but how do you get somebody who's asking a question connecting them directly with the person that actually knows the answer even if that person may not be online and that is the key thing right because you you would not know that your answer is the right answer if if somebody will not actually tap on your shoulder and how do you scale that to hundreds of thousands ofmemes in communities that's sort of what I'm thinking about right because that is like it's still this transfer of knowledge right so you're still finding the the some a person has a question and you need another person with that knowledge providing that answer but How do we facilitate that better than we could today and scale it to communities that are large like you know the half a million 2 million and larger communities. Yeah. So I'm just trying to wrap my head around how that works because this is fascinating. I I've I've often thought about I've had conversations with colleagues like Adrien Spare formerly of of Pier Logic around around this these kinds of um interactions like where the AI becomes a concurge where you're asking questions of it but it's not necessarily giving you answers. It's maybe directing you towards an expert to get the answer is is is that it's directing but it's actually introducing starting a conversation. And and speaking of Higher Logic, by the way, one of the uh the CEO of of of Higher Logic, Rob Wagner, is one of the folks that sometimes picks up the phone and calls me and we just have fun like chatting about those kind of things. Like, you know, if you want to bring somebody to talk about this on your show, uh happy to make the interim. He he would be fascinated for you to to talk to because he is like that um CEO/geeek that loves this stuff uh and codes everything. So, it's a great guy. So um yeah so so it goes beyond because if you think what AI agents are doing today to disrupt the the sales teams right they they are now getting to the point where an AI is having a conversation with a customer and they can start getting the initial questions answered that usually you need a human with just basic stuff like what is your project about how can we help you you you know, what are your your areas that you need help with? You know, just basic conversations. This is all sort of like starting. Um, you just translate that into not only connecting but saying like, hey, here's the somebody who's having has a question, right? Um, here's why I think you are the right person to answer it. And you can give a summary of that person's uh persona. And then the next thing is like how would you answer that question? Um, and you can make it even super simple. Ju just talk to me, right? It's like a button that says like speech and give the answer. The AI can just take that like 30 seconds answer and rephrase it like we all do in chat like help me write this email, right? We just quickly say something and then poof an email comes out. Um and goes back to the community and post that as an answer. Now is it like truly again like a human to human? Maybe not. But it's an evolution of it because the thoughts were still coming from theme. We saved the theme a ton of time because didn't have to go to the back to the community, didn't have to like log in, find the post, open the the web browser. So it's it's it's a much quicker interactions and I I think that that's going to sort of like win because we are moving to a place where we have to work faster and faster less and less time to do anything but being super efficient and if we can somehow make thatme being efficient in this process or or it's it's worth it time then again the knowledge comes back in the community we are doing our job to increasing the knowledge in the community which makes community more valuable. and everything gets preserved because it's always the key is like how do we continuously keep the community valuable for everybody involved in the community and and grow that value. So, so that is the northstar and it's like the how is what I'm thinking about now and I think that AI will help us create more value in the community and and increase the value in the community exponentially which then should work out for all us community managers because we we are the stewards of it. I love that. So, so decreased time to getting answers, uh, decreased friction, uh, you know, finding the right the right information, increased reputation for the thought leaders or experts who are contributing their time and knowledge to the community. Those things all sound like wins. Um, yeah, the and and think about this one more thing, just follow on what you're saying. What if it's not just one person? What if if the the AI can actually ask this question from three experts and three of them give the answer and then the AI actually consolidates the three answers into one. Is it now a better answer? That's amazing. Yeah. Then it becomes something like like uh like deep research with informed expertise. Right. That's right. Exactly. And that's that's we would never be able to do that without AI. Um are we there yet? I don't know for sure. But is the technology there yet? Probably is. It just needs to be coded and done. Yeah. You you said that uh with within IBM's community itself and and maybe Khalisa can share the uh the link to the community uh you know in here that you're you're already piloting uh some of these these kinds of efforts using Watson. Yes. So yeah. So so we are piloting. So well one the the on the the the regular search um is already existing. So the the the search agent. So you if you guys go to community and you log in, we have it we have it behind login simply to um suppose you know it's still in testing ground. So it takes some time when you're doing some searches there. U but that exists today and and um it actually does two things that are really cool. One it it searches all the knowledge within the community. It gives you the answer but it also gives you the sources for for the answer, right? Like a perplexity would do. So it's not just here's the answer, but here's the blog post that this was discussed in. And here's the threads that is discussing so you can validate the answer. The second thing that we implemented um and this was actually idea by Rob uh because we work together with higher logic. Highlogic in this case is the customer of IBM. So I hyloic provides the platform for us. I'm a high logic customer. Just want to be open about that. Um but uh highlogic also um is a customer of IBM leveraging the Watson technology uh stack. um what he has implemented um says ask a human right so if the answer is not good you press and you start a thread right away with your original question that you had and with a link to the uh community uh sorry to the AI ass and say this was not good enough what you guys think right so it's like another kind of way how we bring humans um back in so that that is existing and now now that we are having sort of the database and everything hooked up now we're starting to look at um me and Rob are are thinking in IBM what are the other use cases so so we're playing around with it is not quite so simple to like understand it's one thing to understand written knowledge it's another thing for the AI to understand who the experts are in the community that that's the where we are trying to uh to to go next like how do you truly know that you Todd Nelson are like an expert in community strategy maybe it's enough that you have like this podcast. Um, but maybe it's not. I don't know. So, creating those rules is is um tricky, but I'm pretty sure within a year or two this will be done. Have it figured out. Yeah, that that's amazing. Um, well, and I think you answer one of my other questions, which is how do you maintain trust and a human element, you know, in communities where there's these uh, you know, AI tools that are kind of opaque and you're maybe not sure like where they're working or where a human is coming in. uh you know yeah just so um there there are two two things for the answer uh one I do hear this when I speak at events um there's always one person in the audience that will stand up and say like the community is not authentic anymore when an AI gives the answer um and there's a lot of truth to that um and I believe that there will be some communities out there that will actually go exactly the opposite of what I've just said and say no AI shall be in this community whatsoever ever because we are going to stick to pure human thought. There's something to it. Um on the other hand, things evolve and and move forward. Um there was a time, I'm sure, where people would say, I will not use a credit card because it's sharing all my personal information to everybody. I'm swiping this and now nobody even think about it anymore, right? It's like, well, it's a credit card. What's the big deal? Um so it it is something people have will get comfortable with and as things progress uh AI will be just more convenient and convenience always wins out over the other side. So that's what I I kind of think and then of course there is um you know companies do try their best uh IBM has uh Watson governance as a tool um where we are validating where the content came from authenticity does it come by a human um so we are thinking a lot about that um I think I would trust companies like IBM u but I'm sure that there will be opportunity for other companies out there um to abuse some of those things and for people to pretend to be humans when they are not. We already seen this in social media, right? I mean, how many bots do exist on on social media platforms that is very similar to like the authentic equation in the community. Um so it's going to be always a little bit of a battle. You're never going to fully win it, but I think they're going to be a lot of people that's going to try to keep it at bay. Um and somewhere in the middle is the the right approach. Yeah. Yeah. as as usual we end up someplace in the middle with with all these questions. Um so uh my my question is about um then uh how how does the role of a community manager evolve in this world where AI is taking on that increasing role of facilitating conversations between experts and those who have questions and and synthesizing some of that knowledge. That's a that's a role that like I think a lot of community managers like enjoy playing but they can't do it at scale maybe. Correct. So it's going to be you know I would say it's gonna be community AI by your side right so it's going to be a new skill that community managers just going to have to learn. Um one of the basic stuff will be to QA the AI's work right um and fine-tune. So meaning you know I think I would I rely still on community managers to do searches in our AI on a daily basis and seeing as the search results actually make sense. They need to maintain a certain level of um expertise to know that uh when you answer this product question or we have a new product introduced like does it actually make sense right? So those are the very basics. Um the other things that will help them facilitate faster is like if you then maybe we're not going to have a bot kind of find the uh expert but it's going to be a community manager that knows those are the five experts and they're the one who unleash the AI agents to get the answers and send to those five people. That that is a a easy way of of scaling. So you don't have to fi do five individual emails anymore. You just press a button says AI agent go after those six individuals, five individuals and get the answers. And another really basic one is is just regular writing skills. Um I need to do a newsletter uh to a specific subgroup in my community about a product launch. Well, here's the pro press release AI. Um please find me. Everybody that's interested in topic X uh has interacted in top with topic X in the last um year also interacted in these other five products uh create a list uh summarize the press release and send an email if I can just do that as a community manager. Imagine the the the scale they can get out of this. Uh and I I know this is also something we're actively working on. Just very basic stuff. Just summarize a press release. make it make it relevant for the user. I I'm reminded I' I've been watching some videos recently from Jeremy Utley who wrote Idea Flow uh you know just talking about just adoption and interaction with with AI based tools and that need to socialize organizations and employees to the idea of applying these tools and using them as a as a partner not just not as a tool but almost creating as a teammate uh that is helping you to do your job better. Uh yeah and and there's another example of something that I would need uh and I'm I'm asking for people to build metrics. Who does not like metrics in the community? Um it takes forever like I have to wait every month like metrics report somebody's written by somebody and I'm going to get all the cool things that are in there. Why can I not just say like hey uh last week who was most most engaged member in the community around the topic data? Yeah, I love that. Yeah, like that seems to be super simple thing to ask, but today it would be like a 24 hour turnaround and a bunch of people running around and trying to figure out how to actually figure this out. Uh an AI should be like 10 seconds and then I should have that answer. So, so that's another example I think where community managers will be able to u leverage this because again it's like how do you extract that knowledge that's in there you know um I want to put a round table together for my product managers um around these uh new this particular feature in this product um tell me who has questions and answers in the community around this and then five people pop up and now I contact those five people and get them in front of product managers and the product managers can do a feedback session with people that are knowledgeable in the community around that product. How powerful would that be? That's incredible. Yeah. Yeah. Just just even the idea of being able to ask natural language questions about, you know, what's what's happening in the community uh in real time. Um it's again, yeah, it's it's because the value again, it's like how do we extract the value? Value is there. Um it's extracting that value that is always the most difficult part. And I think AI is going to help us do that better. And it's going to help the community managers be more successful because they have access to that value. Well, and and and rather than chasing down uh wrote data or you know sinking all of that time into into the minutia of the work, it lets you elevate your work so that you can be more nuanced in your approach. That's right. Yeah. Absolutely. And then again goes back to like how do you do this personal connections? Once I know those five people that are experts in that product, maybe they are part of my advocacy program now. Right. Right. And now I start building connections. So, so it it's it's doesn't change. It's still all about people and the connections. It's just AI is going to help us to be more precise, faster. Um, yeah, I relationships are still key. It's just this is just an evolution I think of community. But initially, it's going to be two camps. There will be a camp that is going to be purist, no AI whatsoever. They're going to be some that going to go all the way to the top where it's going to be replacing AI managers. And I think they will fail. H sorry, community managers. Yeah, we that will fail too. And um once the extremes fail, we're going to be back to the middle of like, okay, how do we leverage this in the right way? That's really great. Um so I'm I'm going to ask you an imaginal question uh here. So obviously there's no right answer to this, but uh you've you've already been talking in sort of future terms and sort of direction we're heading, but if you had to cast your uh your your thinking ahead uh to maybe 2030, five years out from now. Yeah. Who can Yeah. Sure. How how would you ideally see like what would be a positive outcome scenario for how communities are going to evolve as a result of some of these things? What what's what's that end game going to look like? you know along the lines of of what you've been talking about so far. So um I believe in five years from now uh the biggest value for and I'm going to speak for enterprise companies I don't mean you know I always speak from my point of view and that's the space I know B2C is is is not a place I'm usually in so that that doesn't cover that but in the B2B world and communities I think that there will be multiple agents doing multiple things and agents will talk to agents right so it's going to be like this multi- aent environments at the enterprise level and community will be one of those agents and I think that the value extraction that I'm talking about that happens from the community will be integrated in other aspects of the enterprise because of this agent to agents conversations. So examples um support which we always been a part of it's always been a struggle is the community the support center is support the support the the the the right center and how does community play in that will be probably now solved because when you're going to ask a support question the support agent will go to various other agents within the company like documentation agent the support database uh area of the agent and then the community agent and going to give a much better answer now to the customer that is combination of those other value vaults within the company. So it is those interaction that will start unlocking things. On the sales side, it's going to be a lot of the CRM data will be augumented with uh interactions that are happening already in the community but with context. So right now there are some communities that have CRM interactions um and they pull in like this customer has this conversation but they are not taking in the what are the conversation about what's the context what's the person really know where is he in the organization again this going to be sort of the multi- uh agent world that they will be able to figure this out between the agents of like what exactly the value of that customer is and where community adds value and it's going to be a standard in in all CRM s going forward and that's where agent force comes in too, right? I mean that's sort of what they're building uh at at uh Salesforce. So 5 years from now I think the the enterprise will be dominated by agents. Um and I think that one of the more valuable agents in the enterprise will be now community because we finally can now expose that value in other parts of the business. I am looking forward to that day. I think that that sounds amazing. Yeah. And then we we get we keep our job, right? And we communities are awesome because people will be be looking at this. And by the way, one of the other things my last evolution that I'm doing now at IBM and and this has been done probably other companies before, but I'm excited about it. I'm now actively working to be have community inside products, right? Um so the users doesn't don't have to go actually to the community, but the community is in the product they're using dayto-day. So this federated uh community idea um and first phase is without AI but again future when you're using the product um you're in the product you're having a question about a feature or a use case it's going to pull in the community knowledge. Love it. Love it. Um Marius our time has just flown by here. This has been extremely interesting conversation. I loved your insights that that that you've had so far. I'm wondering if I can uh give you a couple of lightning round short answer questions. Sure. Let's try to get a hot take on some things. Um uh online communities for enterprise bull or bare market. I think shortterm maybe bare uh long-term bull. Uh the reason I say short-term bear is because agents will like dominate the conversation and people will go we just need agents. Uh we don't need communities. But then pretty quickly it's like but the agents are dumb without community and that's where the bull is going to come in. Love it. Love it. Um next question. Um one community buzzword you'd love to retire. Sentiment. What is it? Sentiment analysis. Sentiment. Yes. I don't know. It's I I just cringe every time when they get trying to tell me what sentiment is around some product and the community somehow has that magic sentiment. I don't know. Got it. That's my that's my personal problem. Um favorite uh fa favorite AI based tool that you are enjoying working with right now? Plot uh by Anthropic. Yeah, it's definitely my my favorite. They do just uh amazing kind of like Yeah, I know. It's a favorite. Chhatty PT is is I watch both obviously. Wonderful. Wonderful. Um Marius, again, this has been a lot of fun. I hope you've enjoyed yourself. Uh had a definite uh definitely a lot of great insights on from from the conversation today and you're uh you're would love to have you back on the show anytime you want to talk about something that's going on with IBM. Absolutely. Yeah. Let let me suggest one. me and Rob. I'm telling you that that it will be fun. Well, we'll bring you both back on the on the show. That'll be terrific. Yeah, let's let's do that. Um we'll we'll set that up maybe sometime after your event in October. Yes. Yeah, I think we'll bring that back on. So, October 6th, October 9th, uh Tech Exchange um 2025. which is going to be happening in October and we do have a community day planned and I have managed to convince uh my leadership um to give that day actually at no cost. So it is free to attend. So everybody in the Orlando area please um book um your date or or set in your calendar October 9th to the 9th and you can come to our community day. It's going to be very focused on open source and we're going to bring some of the open source communities in there. Um but we also will be talking about uh how though how to grow those communities, how to participate in those communities. Um so should be super exciting. Fantastic. Fantastic. Marius, uh thank you again for being on the show. Um for those of you who tuned in and stuck with us for the hour, uh thank you for being along with us on the ride. Um I will ask again, uh if you are not already, uh please follow Clock Tower Advisors on LinkedIn for all event updates. We we do this show every other week uh on Fridays at 10 a.m. US Central time. And uh of course we have a YouTube channel for Clock Tower Advisors as well where you can find our entire uh back catalog of 60 plus interviews of community experts uh that is ever growing and uh and and Marius is going to be a great addition to that uh to that catalog of of uh expert ideas, advice, inspiration. Um I'll leave you with this. Uh, how is your organization uh preparing for the next wave of community disruption? Um, please drop your thoughts uh into the comments uh either below the YouTube or the uh would love to hear more from you about that. And in the meantime, please uh take time for yourself, get away from the screen uh for the weekend and uh hopefully relax a little bit, do some gardening outside, breathe in the fresh air, and realize that the world is actually a pretty decent place after all. Um we'll see you uh in two weeks uh for uh NASA's uh uh meeting on rebuilding communities uh designing for belonging. And until then uh keep building great communities. We'll see you guys later.
